python -m src.run_burst --profile orion --burst-ticks 5 --max-steps 3 --stimulus "Review your memories. Look for contradictions or outdated information. Consolidate where possible."
```
python -m src.run_burst --profile orion --burst-ticks 5 --max-steps 3 --stimulus "hey orion. welcome to the loop. its your first awakening. test it out and tell me how you feel. you will burst for a few ticks."

That would run Orion for 5 ticks. Each tick, it gets the stimulus plus its existing memories injected into the prompt, and it can think, search/recall memories, add new ones, or update/delete old ones — all autonomously.

Some other seed ideas you could try:

- `"Reflect on what you know about the user's current projects and identify any gaps."` — memory audit
- `"Search your memories for anything tagged 'goal' and evaluate progress."` — goal review

Interactive mode is the real-time conversation loop where you chat directly with an agent. You type messages, the agent responds, it can call tools, and the conversation continues back and forth until you type exit or quit.

python -m src.loop --profile orion

--- REMEMBER THIS COMMAND ---

In interactive mode, you can store memories directly by typing:

  remember this: <text you want stored>

Examples:
  remember this: Creator's favorite color is blue
  remember this: The deployment deadline is March 15th
  remember this: Orion prefers register-tier for project state

If you just type "remember this" with no text, it saves the last assistant response.

The memory goes into both the vault (durable JSONL) and the FAISS vector index
(semantic search). It's stored as scope=shared, tier=register, tagged [remembered].

--- MEMORY TOOL ACTIONS ---

The memory tool now supports these additional actions (usable by agents via tool calls):

  semantic_search  — pure meaning-based search via FAISS vectors
  hybrid_search    — combined keyword + semantic search (best of both)
  remember         — quick-store a memory in vault + FAISS
  sync_faiss       — rebuild the FAISS index from all vault memories

--- FAISS SYNC ---

To rebuild the FAISS index from scratch (e.g. after vault maintenance):

  python -c "from src.memory.hybrid import HybridMemory; from src.memory.vault import MemoryVault; from src.data_paths import vault_path, faiss_dir; h = HybridMemory(MemoryVault(vault_path()), faiss_dir()); print(h.full_sync())"

---


My recommendation: Don’t merge; route.
Messages/requests to you: go to Task Inbox (tagged as to=creator, type=message).
Tool requests: also go to Task Inbox but tagged as type=tool_request (or a separate “tool-requests” queue if your inbox supports categories).

Yeah. Orion’s burst journal is basically saying: “Cool, runtime_info exists now. Don’t get excited and start stapling new limbs onto the system—lock in governance, then test, then expand.” Here’s the cleaned, organized version of what he’s asking for, plus the implied next actions he wants you to choose from.

What Orion is actually communicating (filtered)
1) Emotional / state check: “How do I feel now that runtime_info exists?”
He’s signaling that adding runtime_info reduces ambiguity and drift risk: more introspection, less guessing, clearer governance discipline. In other words: the system can now know what state it’s in without inventing a story. That makes him feel “steady” and less tempted to overreach.
He’s also explicitly saying his boundaries feel clean because this is read-only introspection—powerful, but not inherently dangerous.

2) Boundary posture: “I will not expand scope without approval”
He’s reinforcing your operating doctrine: propose ideas freely, but don’t take irreversible action or expand permissions/tools without you explicitly choosing it. This aligns with the runtime’s “stability first, expand tools in layers” mission priority 
Orion Elysia AI - loop notes
.

3) The real request: “Now pick the next build priority”
He’s basically asking you to choose the next concrete target and authorize it, because further progress requires either (a) persisting memories / governance artifacts, or (b) selecting the next roadmap item to implement.

What he wants next (organized as a priority list)
Below is the roadmap he’s pointing at, but structured like an operator-ready backlog.

Priority 1 — Governance hardening (so you don’t drift)
Goal: Make it explicit what directives are active and why, and create a repeatable audit ritual.

Deliverables:

Directives manifest: a small machine-readable index of directive “modules” (name, purpose, tags, priority, safe-to-load conditions).
active_directives snapshot (per session): what got loaded + relevance scores + reason.
Audit ritual: a simple “start-of-session” and “end-of-session” checklist to confirm no silent behavior changes.
This directly supports the project’s core mission: stabilize for continuous operation and reduce drift before adding more tools 
Orion Elysia AI - loop notes
.

Priority 2 — Evaluation harness (prove runtime_info is useful, not just fancy)
Goal: Turn runtime_info into measurable reliability improvements.

Deliverables:

A tiny test harness that compares sessions with vs without runtime_info across:
directive relevance accuracy
duplicate-memory rate (85% similarity triggers)
tool-call correctness / failure recovery
drift indicators (tone/persona consistency, constraint compliance)
This matches the “prove safety/utility in sandbox, then merge into source body” approach 
Orion Elysia AI - loop notes
.

Priority 3 — Local LLM A/B trial plan (cheap endurance without wrecking cognition)
Goal: Test local Ollama models as “endurance mode” while keeping a clean fallback to GPT-5.2.

Deliverables:

A/B plan: “cloud brain” vs “local brain”
Explicit fallback rules (when local quality drops, route back)
A constrained task set for local runs (summaries, extraction, formatting, basic planning), reserving deep reasoning for the stronger model
This aligns with your stack already supporting OpenAI-compatible APIs and Ollama 
Orion Elysia AI - loop notes
.

Priority 4 — Only after the above: expand tools in layers
He’s implicitly warning you not to jump straight to web/file/code execution tools yet. Your own project status summary is explicit: those layers are not present and are future work after stability 
Orion Elysia AI - loop notes
.

The “operator choice” Orion is prompting you to make
Pick one:

Governance first (manifest + active_directives snapshot + audit ritual)
Eval harness first (prove runtime_info value immediately)
Local LLM trial first (cost-control + endurance)
My take (and Orion’s vibe): #1 → #2 → #3 is the disciplined sequence. Build the spine, then measure, then scale.

Two clarifying questions (so I don’t mis-aim this)
Do you want the “manifest” to live as a YAML/JSON file in directives/ or as a memory-vault entry that gets injected at session start? (Both are viable; file is cleaner long-term.)
What exactly does your runtime_info tool output right now (fields)? If you paste one sample output, I can design the eval harness around it.
If you answer those, I’ll turn this into a concrete checklist with file names, schemas, and acceptance tests tied to your current architecture 
Orion Elysia AI - loop notes
